# ADWORDS

Google  marketplace  can  be  considered  as  the  greatest  source  of  revenue  for  Google  search  engine.Users search for specific queries on the engine and the google marketplace appends a ”related” AD asits first result query, followed by the actual results of the query search.  The one ”AD” result is whatforms  the basis  of  Google  Search Engine’s  revenue,  and  in order  to  maximize  that revenue,  Googlehas to optimize the types of ADs shown for specific user search query.  This essential gives rise to theproblem  of  ADWORDS  (General).   Informally,  this  problem  involves  matching  keyword  queries,  asthey arrive online, to advertisers having budget constraints.Taking about prior results, for the case with small bids, an optimal algorithm achieving a competitiveratio of 1−1e was first given in [MSVV07].  Another variant of ADWORDS was recently defined asSINGLE-VALUED which a special case of GENERAL in which each bidder makes bids of a single valuefor the queries he is interested in.  However, the core problem, of which all the problems mentionedabove are extensions, is OBM. This problem occupies a central place not only in online algorithms butalso  in  matching-based  market  design.   For  OBM,  a  simple,  optimal,  randomized  online  algorithm,called RANKING, was given in [KVV90]. Its competitive ratio is 1−1e and [KVV90] showed that norandomized online algorithm can achieve a better ratio than 1−1e +o(1); clearly, this upper boundapplies to GENERAL as well.However,  the analysis of RANKING given in [KVV90] was based on a dual-fitting approach,  whichwas  recently  simplied  further  by  [Vaz21].   We  base  our  study  on  their  work  and  try  to  understandand  build  upon  the  algorithms  and  bounds  given  from  an  economic  viewpoint.   [Vaz21]  discussestwo new ideas, carry over to the analysis of all other versions such as SINGLE-VALUED, k-TYPICAL,GENERAL, SMALL.Sadly, the question of finding tight algorithms for the GENERAL variant of ADWORDS remain openwith a greedy algorithm, which matches each query to the highest bidder, achieves a competitive ratioof 1/2.  The current best possible algorithm as given by [HZZ20] marginally improvs over this with aratio of 0.5016. Followed by this [Vaz21] give an online algorithm for GENERAL. However, it turns outthat its structural difficulties do not blend well with their proof technique, and as a result, the revenuegenerated by the algorithm needs to consist of real as well as “fake” money,  failing to ascertain thecompetitive ratio of their proposed algorithm.  We analyze this heuristic theoretically.  Following this,we  perform  experiments  with  the  heuristic  to  observe  any  structurally  unique  and  hindering  inputtypes.
